---
content_type: page
description: Another page
draft: false
title: p3
uid: 29635da9-859d-4a47-a1ce-954c5505989a
---
Let’s review our wish list for the characteristics of a combinational device. In the previous lecture we worked hard to develop a voltage-based representation for informations that could tolerate some amount error as the information flowed through a system of processing elementss.

We specified four signaling thresholds: \\(V\_{\\textrm{OL}}\\) and \\(V\_{\\textrm{OH}}\\) set the upper and lower bounds on voltages used to represent 0 and 1 respectively at the outputs of a combinational device. \\(V\_{\\textrm{IL}}\\) and \\(V\_{\\textrm{IH}}\\) served a similar role for interpreting the voltages at the inputs of a combinational device. We also specified that \\(V\_{\\textrm{OL}}\\) be strictly less than \\(V\_{\\textrm{IL}}\\), and termed the difference between these two low thresholds as the low noise margin, the amount of noise that could be added to an output signal and still have the signal interpreted correctly at any connected inputs. For the same reasons we specified that \\(V\_{\\textrm{IH}}\\) be strictly less than \\(V\_{\\textrm{OH}}\\).

We saw the implications of including noise margins when we looked at the voltage transfer characteristic — a plot of \\(V\_{\\textrm{OUT}}\\) vs. \\(V\_{\\textrm{IN}}\\) — for a combinational device. Since a combinational device must, in the steady state, produce a valid output voltage given a valid input voltage, we can identify forbidden regions in the VTC, which for valid input voltages identify regions of invalid output voltages. The VTC for a legal combinational device could not have any points that fall within these regions. The center region bounded by the four threshold voltages is narrower than it is high and so any legal VTC has to a have region where its gain is greater than 1 and the overall VTC has to be non-linear. The VTC shown here is that for a combinational device that serves as an inverter.

If we’re fortunate to be using a circuit technology that provides high gain and has output voltages close the ground and the power supply voltage, we can push \\(V\_{\\textrm{OL}}\\) and \\(V\_{\\textrm{OH}}\\) outward towards the power supply rails, and push \\(V\_{\\textrm{IL}}\\) and \\(V\_{\\textrm{IH}}\\) inward, with the happy consequence of increasing the noise margins — always a good thing!

Remembering back to the beginning of Lecture 2, we’ll be wanting billions of devices in our digital systems, so each device will have to be quite inexpensive and small.

In today’s mobile world, the ability to run our systems on battery power for long periods of time means that we’ll want to have our systems dissipate as little power as possible. Of course, manipulating information will necessitate changing voltages within the system and that will cost us some amount of power. But if our system is idle and no internal voltages are changing, we’d like for our system to have zero power dissipation. When.

Finally, we’ll want to be able to implement systems with useful functionality and so need to develop a catalog of the logic computations we want to perform.

Quite remarkably, there is a circuit technology that will make our wishes come true! That technology is the subject of this lecture.